add: construction api tutorial (#2702)
dfinity/portal: docs/developer-docs/defi/rosetta/icp_rosetta/construction_api/operations_flow/preprocess.mdx

---
keywords: [intermediate, rosetta, tutorial, derive, accountidentifier]
---
import { MarkdownChipRow } from "/src/components/Chip/MarkdownChipRow";

# Construction-Preprocess

> ## How to acquire network specific metadata

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Overview
```

For this example we are sending ICP to the arbitrary account `7f622708b363917e3ba0ef8ac1cb0dfe241ef5ffca54f32c1480473ee3a12cad`. 
```bash
curl --location '0.0.0.0:8081/construction/preprocess'  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' --data '{
  "network_identifier": {
    "blockchain": "Internet Computer",
    "network": "00000000000000020101"
  },
  "operations": [
    {
      "operation_identifier": {
        "index": 0
      },
      "type": "TRANSACTION",
      "account": {
        "address": "8b84c3a3529d02a9decb5b1a27e7c8d886e17e07ea0a538269697ef09c2a27b4"
      },
      "amount": {
        "value": "-10",
        "currency": {
          "symbol": "ICP",
          "decimals": 8
        }
      }
    },
    {
      "operation_identifier": {
        "index": 1
      },
      "type": "TRANSACTION",
      "account": {
        "address": "7f622708b363917e3ba0ef8ac1cb0dfe241ef5ffca54f32c1480473ee3a12cad"
      },
      "amount": {
        "value": "10",
        "currency": {
          "symbol": "ICP",
          "decimals": 8
        }
      }
    }
  ],
  "metadata": null
}'
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Here you are creating two operations, one for debiting the account that the tokens are sent from and a credit operation for the account where the tokens are sent to. 
For this example, you are sending ICP to the arbitrary account `7f622708b363917e3ba0ef8ac1cb0dfe241ef5ffca54f32c1480473ee3a12cad`. 
```

> and the response would look something like this. It contains two fields. The `options` object has to be forwarded to the `construction/metadata` endpoint to fetch network specific data. 
> The `required_public_keys` field indicates for which `account-id` the `construction/payloads` endpoint will need the full public key. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response would resemble the following:
```

```json
{"options":{"request_types":["TRANSACTION"]},"required_public_keys":[{"address":"8b84c3a3529d02a9decb5b1a27e7c8d886e17e07ea0a538269697ef09c2a27b4"}]}⏎                                                                  
```

> The required public keys in this case is the public key that correspons to the sending account. We can derive this public key from the provided private key. To validate that the accountidentifiers match up you can call `construction/derive` with the public key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It contains two fields. The `options` object has to be forwarded to the `construction/metadata` endpoint to fetch network specific data. 
The `required_public_keys` field indicates for which `account-id` the `construction/payloads` endpoint will need the full public key. 

The required public keys in this case is the public key that corresponds to the sending account. You can derive this public key from the provided private key. To validate that the `accountidentifiers` matches up, you can call `construction/derive` with the public key.
```

> Building on the previous python code snipped. A call to the `construction/preprocess` endpoint written in python could be implemented like the following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A call to the `construction/preprocess` endpoint written in Python could be implemented as follows:
```

> Example call: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
